---
ID: 389
post_title: Software License Terms
author: Scott Regan
post_date: 2017-01-19 17:09:48
post_excerpt: ""
layout: page
permalink: >
  http://applatix.staging.wpengine.com/license-terms/
published: true
title_display:
  - 'a:1:{i:0;s:7:"current";}'
custom_nav:
  - 'a:1:{i:0;s:1:"0";}'
nav_icon:
  - 'a:1:{i:0;s:0:"";}'
---
<ol>
    <li><u>Grant of License and Restrictions</u>. Subject to the terms hereof, payment of all fees, and any applicable user/use limitations (including any limitations set forth in the Order Form, if any, pursuant to which Licensee obtains access to the Product), Applatix grants Licensee a personal, nonsublicensable, nonexclusive, right to use a licensed product internally and in object code form only (“Product”). The Product includes all updates and upgrades made commercially available to Licensee without additional charge. Licensee will not (and will not allow any third party to) (i) reverse engineer or attempt to discover any source code or underlying ideas or algorithms of any Product (except to the extent that applicable law prohibits reverse engineering restrictions), (ii) provide, lease, lend, disclose, use for timesharing or service bureau purposes, or otherwise use or allow others to use for the benefit of any third party, any Product (except as expressly and specifically authorized by Applatix), (iii) possess or  use any Product, or allow the transfer, transmission, export, or re-export of any Product or portion thereof in violation of any export control laws or regulations administered by the U.S. Commerce Department, U.S. Treasury Department\'s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or any other government agency, (iv) disclose to any third party any benchmarking or comparative study involving any Product or (v) modify any Product. Prior to disposing of any media or apparatus containing any part of the Product, Licensee shall completely destroy any Product contained therein. All the limitations and restrictions on Products in this Agreement also apply to documentation and screens. Further, a Product licensed without charge or for a nominal charge will be deemed a free evaluation license and may be used for purposes of evaluation for a paid license only, and not for any productive use. LICENSEE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE PRODUCT MAY INCLUDE FEATURES TO PREVENT USE AFTER THE APPLICABLE LICENSE PERIOD AND/OR USE INCONSISTENT HEREWITH. Licensee acknowledges that Product may be distributed alongside or contain or use certain third party software (“Third Party Software”). THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE IS (IN ADDITION TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT), SUBJECT TO AND GOVERNED BY (AND LICENSEE AGREES TO, AND WILL INDEMNIFY APPLATIX FOR NONCOMPLIANCE WITH) THE RESPECTIVE LICENSES FOR THE THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE AVAILABLE CAN BE OBTAINED FROM APPLATIX.</li>
    <li><u>Support and Maintenance</u>. While the license (other than a free evaluation license) for a Product has not been terminated and all applicable fees have been timely paid for each annual support term, Applatix will use reasonable commercial efforts to provide the support and maintenance services for that Product as and to the extent described in Applatix’s then applicable standard Support and Maintenance Terms (the current version of which can be found at <a href=\"http://applatix.staging.wpengine.com/support-maintenance-services-terms-conditions/\">http://applatix.staging.wpengine.com/support-maintena…terms-conditions/</a> ) (“Support Services”), except with respect to Third Party Sofware. In the case of a perpetual license, Licensee may terminate Support Services for Products by giving notice to Applatix no later than 30 days before the end of the initial one year Support Services term or any renewal thereof (Applatix will have a reciprocal right after the first renewal); unless such notice is timely given, such Support Services for such Products will renew for successive one-year terms.</li>
    <li><u> Fees and Payment</u>. Within thirty days after first receipt of the Product or the date(s) otherwise expressly agreed by Applatix, Licensee shall pay Applatix Applatix’s then current standard license/subscription fees for any authorized copies or uses of Product or such other fees as have been expressly agreed to by Applatix (“License Fees”); in the case of annual subscriptions, License Fees therefor will also be paid annually in advance. At the same time as payment of the initial License Fees, and annually in advance thereafter (and except to the extent included in License Fees for annual subscriptions), Licensee shall also pay Applatix’s then current standard support and maintenance fees for Product or such other support and maintenance fees as have been expressly agreed to by Applatix (“Annual Maintenance Fees”). In addition, without limiting Applatix’s remedies, if Licensee makes or uses copies, or has users/uses, that are not authorized hereunder, it will so report to Applatix and will pay additional license and maintenance and support fees equal to Applatix’s then current standard fees for the license and maintenance and support of such extra copies and users/uses (from time to time upon request, Applatix will be entitled to audit or have audited all systems and records relevant to assure compliance with the foregoing; any audit showing noncompliance will be at Licensee’s expense). All payments shall be made in the currency of, and within the borders of the United States. Any payments more than thirty (30) days overdue will bear a late payment fee of 1.5% per month, or, if lower, the maximum rate allowed by law. In addition, Licensee will pay all taxes, shipping, duties, withholdings, backup withholding and the like; when Applatix has the legal obligation to pay or collect such taxes, the appropriate amount shall be paid by Licensee directly to Applatix. Licensee will reimburse Applatix for all reasonable travel and other related expenses incurred by Applatix in its performance hereunder; provided, however, that such expenses shall have been pre-approved by Licensee.  </li>
    <li><u>Professional Services</u>. Upon payment of any applicable professional services fees and related expenses, Applatix agrees to use reasonable commercial efforts to provide agreed upon professional services. If Applatix cannot complete the professional services within the estimated hours, or if the Applatix provides additional professional services, Licensee will pay Applatix at its then-current hourly rates for consultation. Applatix retains ownership of all results of professional services.</li>
    <li><u>Confidential Information and Feedback.</u> “Confidential Information” means any non-public information relating to, or derived from, the Products, technical features and benchmark or performance results. Licensee shall not use or disclose any Confidential Information except as expressly authorized in this Agreement and shall protect the Confidential Information using the same degree of care that it uses with respect to its own confidential information, but in no event with safeguards less than a reasonably prudent business would exercise under similar circumstances. Licensee may, in its sole discretion, provide feedback to Applatix regarding the use, operation, performance, and functionality of the Products, including identifying potential errors and improvements (collectively, “Feedback”). Licensee hereby grants to Applatix a perpetual, irrevocable, worldwide, sublicenseable and royalty-free right to use the Feedback in any manner; provided that feedback is anonymized and will not include Licensee’s Confidential Information.</li>
    <li><u>Embedded Reporting / Compliance Routine; Data Access and Use</u>. Licensee acknowledges that Products may contain automated reporting routines that will automatically identify and analyze certain aspects of use and performance of Products and/or the systems on which they are installed, as well as the operator and operating environment (including problems and issues that arise in connection therewith), and provide e-mail and other reports to Applatix; this includes, without limitation, information on usage that Applatix uses for billing purposes. Applatix will be entitled to inspect the installation and configuration of such Products and systems from time to time on reasonable notice. Provided it does not identify Licensee, Applatix will be free to use for development, diagnostic and corrective purposes any data and information it so collects relating to diagnosis, problems, systems, performance, use or functionality, and may allow others to do so.</li>
    <li><u>Termination; Breach</u>. All licenses will terminate thirty days (ten in the case of non-payment and immediately in the case of a breach of Section 1) after notice of any breach by Licensee remaining uncured at the end of such notice period. A license will also terminate upon the expiration of any applicable license period or such other license period as have been expressly agreed to in writing by Applatix, subject to annual renewal in the case of an annual subscription license (which renewal will be automatic in the absence of notice of non-renewal from either party given at least 30 days prior to end of the then current annual subscription period), provided that in any case a free evaluation license will have a license period of not more than thirty (30) days. Upon any termination, Licensee shall immediately cease all use of all affected Products and return or destroy all copies of all affected Products and all portions thereof and so certify to Applatix. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the terms hereof shall survive any termination. Termination is not an exclusive remedy and all other remedies will be available whether termination occurs. THE PRODUCT MAY CONTAIN DISABLING CODE THAT (EITHER AUTOMATICALLY OR UPON INPUT FROM APPLATIX) WILL MAKE THE PRODUCT (AND RELATED DATA) UNUSABLE UPON TERMINATION OF THE LICENSE OR UPON BREACH.</li>
    <li><u>Limited Warranty and Disclaimer</u>. Except in the case of a free evaluation license, Applatix warrants for a period of thirty (30) days from delivery of a Product that such Product will materially conform to Applatix’s then current user documentation for such Product. This warranty covers only problems reported to Applatix during the warranty period. ANY LIABILITY OF APPLATIX WITH RESPECT TO A PRODUCT OR THE PERFORMANCE THEREOF UNDER ANY WARRANTY, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY OR OTHER THEORY WILL BE LIMITED EXCLUSIVELY TO PRODUCT REPLACEMENT OR, IF REPLACEMENT IS INADEQUATE AS A REMEDY OR, IN APPLATIX’S OPINION, IMPRACTICAL, TO REFUND OF AN APPROPRIATE PORTION THE REMAINING UNAMORTIZED LICENSE FEE PAID BY LICENSEE. EXCEPT FOR THE FOREGOING WARRANTY BY APPLATIX, ALL PRODUCTS ARE PROVIDED “AS IS” WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND FROM ANYONE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NONINFRINGEMENT. FURTHER, APPLATIX DOES NOT WARRANT RESULTS OF USE OR THAT THE PRODUCTS ARE BUG FREE OR THAT THE PRODUCT’S USE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED.</li>
    <li><u>Limitation of Liability</u>. NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING ELSE HEREIN OR OTHERWISE, AND EXCEPT FOR BODILY INJURY, NEITHER APPLATIX NOR ANY LICENSOR SHALL BE LIABLE OR OBLIGATED WITH RESPECT TO THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF OR UNDER ANY CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY OR OTHER LEGAL OR EQUITABLE THEORY (I) FOR ANY AMOUNTS IN EXCESS IN THE AGGREGATE OF THE FEES PAID TO IT HERE­UNDER WITH RESPECT TO THE APPLICABLE PRODUCT DURING THE SIX MONTH PERIOD PRIOR TO THE CAUSE OF ACTION OR (II) FOR ANY COST OF PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS, TECHNOLOGY, SERVICES OR RIGHTS; (III) FOR ANY INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES; (IV) FOR INTERRUPTION OF USE OR LOSS OR CORRUPTION OF DATA; OR (V) FOR ANY MATTER BEYOND ITS REASONABLE CONTROL. THE PRODUCT IS NOT DESIGNED, MANUFACTURED, OR INTENDED FOR USE IN HAZARDOUS ENVIRONMENTS REQUIRING FAIL-SAFE PERFORMANCE WHERE THE FAILURE OF THE PRODUCT COULD LEAD DIRECTLY TO DEATH, PERSONAL INJURY, OR SIGNIFICANT PHYSICAL OR ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE (“HIGH RISK ACTIVITIES”). USE OF THE PRODUCT IN HIGH RISK ACTIVITIES IS NOT AUTHORIZED. THE PARTIES AGREE THAT THIS SECTION 7 REPRESENTS A REASONABLE ALLOCATION OF RISK AND THAT LICENSOR WOULD NOT PROCEED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH ALLOCATION.</li>
    <li><u>Identification</u>. Applatix may use Licensee’s name and logo in client listings. Applatix may issue a press release announcing the relationship contemplated hereby, subject to Licensee’s approval which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.  </li>
    <li><u>Miscellaneous</u>. Neither this arrangement nor the licenses granted hereunder are assignable or transferable (and any attempt to do so shall be void); provided that either party may assign and transfer the foregoing to a successor to substantially all of Applatix’s Product business or assets or Licensee’s business for which Products are licensed (but if the authorized copies or users are not limited, the assignee is not licensed to expand use beyond Licensee’s bona fide pre-assignment use plus reasonably expected growth assuming the assignment and related transactions had not occurred). The provisions hereof are for the benefit of the parties only and not for any other person or entity. Any notice, report, approval, authorization, agreement or consent required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing; notices shall be sent to the address the applicable party has or may provide by written notice or, if there is no such address, the most recent address the party giving notice can locate using reasonable efforts. No failure or delay in exercising any right hereunder will operate as a waiver thereof, nor will any partial exercise of any right or power hereunder preclude further exercise. If any provision shall be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable or invalid, that provision shall be limited or eliminated to the minimum extent necessary so that this arrangement shall otherwise remain in full force and effect and enforceable. This agreement shall be deemed to have been made in, and shall be construed pursuant to the laws of the State of California and the United States without regard to conflicts of laws provisions thereof, and without regard to the United Nations Convention on the International Sale of Goods or the Uniform Computer Information Transactions Act. This is the complete and exclusive statement of the mutual understanding of the parties and supersedes and cancels all previous written and oral agreements and communications relating to the subject matter hereof and any waivers or amendments shall be effective only if made in writing; however, any pre-printed or standard terms of any purchase order, confirmation, or similar form, even if signed by the parties after the effectiveness hereof, shall have no force or effect. The substantially prevailing party in any action to enforce this agreement will be entitled to recover its attorney’s fees and costs in connection with such action. As defined in FAR section 2.101, DFAR section 252.227-7014(a)(1) and DFAR section 252.227-7014(a)(5) or otherwise, all Products and accompanying documentation provided by Applatix are “commercial items,” “commercial computer software” and/or “commercial computer software documentation.” Consistent with DFAR section 227.7202 and FAR section 12.212, any use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, disclosure or distribution thereof by or for the U.S. Government shall be governed solely by these terms and shall be prohibited except to the extent expressly permitted by these terms.</li>
</ol>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>