---
ID: 117
post_title: Are containers the new VM?
author: Ed Lee
post_date: 2016-07-14 15:39:29
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://applatix.staging.wpengine.com/containers-docker-replace-new-vm/
published: true
---
<p class="p1"><span class="s1">It isn't every day that a new virtualization technology comes along and threatens to disrupt the status quo. </span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1">Virtual machines (VMs) have been the dominant enterprise virtualization technology for a bit over a decade. But containers are promising greater agility and efficiency, and threaten to replace VMs for at least some applications. Many startups and large companies are scrambling over themselves to monetize containers.</span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1">While containers do show great promise, we believe that the monetization of containers will play out very differently from VMs. Let's take a closer look at the important differences.</span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1">First, VMs became popular by enabling server consolidation. The beauty of VMs is that it virtualized the entire server without requiring modification of existing applications. Containers, however, require applications to be rewritten. While simple applications can be repackaged into containers without too much difficulty, the management capabilities that we expect for managing VMs (data protection, replication, security, etc.) is currently not available for containers.</span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1">As a result, containers are unlikely to replace VMs any time soon. </span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1">Instead of replacing VMs, containers are more likely to be used to implement scale-out applications that benefit from the greater agility, efficiency and scalability offered by containers. For most enterprise applications, containers will replace VMs indirectly as the applications that today run on on-prem VMs, move to SaaS services implemented using containers.</span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1">Second, enterprise virtualization technology was "owned" by a single company. VMware developed a proprietary technology, reaped the lion's share of profits, and reinvested much of the profits to further develop the technology. In contrast, core container technology is open source and there are many companies trying to monetize the technology.</span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1">Without a single company that can capture the majority of the economic benefit of containers, it may be difficult to make rapid consistent progress on the broad infrastructure front created by containers. Relying on open source development may be inconsistent and many enterprise needs will remain underserved.</span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1">This creates an opportunity for companies such as Google that have already developed mature container infrastructure for internal use to step in and fill the gaps. Still, there is a big difference between creating and using technology for internal use versus creating a product for use by other enterprises.</span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1">There are, of course, significant consulting opportunities created by containers. This may be similar to the opportunities created by OpenStack. As the container ecosystem matures, third party software vendors will jump in and create value added management products based on the dominant container infrastructure.</span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1">Another way to ride the container wave is to create vertically integrated solution for customers. By focusing on a specific vertical, one is less dependent on the advance and maturation of container technology across a broad front. This approach treats container infrastructure as a better implementation technology rather than as an end in itself.</span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1">Third, even before the dust has settled for containers, new "server-less" technologies such as AWS Lambda and Google Cloud Functions are promising even simpler, more agile and more efficient ways of providing services and are vying for mindshare with containers and VMs. These could be important building blocks for building the next generation of cloud native applications and services. However, it is difficult to say that the average enterprise would directly use these technologies themselves.</span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1">Virtualization is in the process of transforming from a technology that is consumed directly by enterprises into something that enables third parties to build better applications and solutions for consumption by enterprises. As the underlying technologies become further removed from end users, new models of managing and deploying applications and services will need to be developed that provide enterprises with customizability, agility and efficiency needed to leverage each enterprise's core value and create competitive advantage.</span></p>